No matter if the rule is simple or complex,
in terms of code, bean validation will use annotations to define such rule.
Let's take back our Book entity.
It has a set of attributes and some of these
attributes need to contain valid data,
so this Book class can be stored in our database.
Just by adding a few annotations to the books attributes
we can express business constraints just like we would do
with if then else statements.
For example, title needs to be NotNull and its size between 1 and 200 characters.
Thanks to these two annotations we can express it easily within our class.
The description can be null,
but if it's not its size needs to be maximum 10000 characters.
The unitCost attribute aggregates another constraint, min.
This means that in our system the price of a book cannot
be null and cannot be less than $1.
The date of publication of the book has to be in the past.
And the beauty of bean validation is that these
constraints can also be added to constructors,
method parameters, as well as return value.
Our BookRepository has three methods that take parameters.
The find method takes an identifier.
We might want to express that the identifier cannot be null nor lower than 10.
The create method takes a Book as a parameter and we
want to make sure this book is NotNull.
Delete takes an identifier that cannot be null and has
to have a value between 1 and 1000.
This enables the well known programming by contract style,
meaning that the caller must meet preconditions before a method is invoked. This way we avoid tons of if then else to validate our business rules.